>> Scott Moss: Which brings me to my next
point, globally distributed Lambdas and
what does that mean
an how do you use them.
So it's a couple of things.
You've got AWS on route
53 which is basically,
it's like their DNS or whatever.
But the cool thing about route 53 and
what it lets you do, it will route.
So if you make a Lambda in
every single region on AWS and
I'm not talking about on the Edge,
but just you make a Lambda.
You push one,
the same Lambdas at every region and
then you use route 53 to determine
which Lambda to route to,
depending on where the client
is making that call from.
So it's basically like a CDN, but
it's not on the Edge if that makes sense.
So you use route 53 to push traffic to
different Lambdas that are closer to your
customers.
So that's really cool.
But if you really wanna truly
get on the Edge, what you're
gonna want is Lambda@Edge which is
basically Lambda functions on the Edge.
So if you don't really know
what a Edge is in CDN,
basically a CDN is a network of nodes
across some region or globally.
And whenever you make a request instead
of going to an origin server somewhere in
like Oregon if you're in Florida, you're
gonna go to the closest node to you which
might be Orlando or
Jacksonville or something.
And then that node, what it normally would
do is just like if you're asking for
the same thing, it would send
it back to you, cuz it's cached.
But now because you can
write Lambda on the Edge,
you can actually do
computations right there.
Instead of just sending back a cached
object, you can write a Lambda function.
You can do anything you want there.
So now when somebody hits the Edge server
which might be right next to them,
you can do whatever you want.
You can do an AB test.
You can make a call to another API.
You can access your globally
distributed database.
So therefore, if you think about it, you
have like the whole CDN as your origin.
You no longer have like a single origin
anymore like every node is your origin and
this makes your APIs like
sub 100 milliseconds,
depending on what you're doing.
So you could create some of the world's
fastest APIs by using some of this stuff
and Lambda on the Edge is pretty dope and
they're upgrading it all
the time with lesser limits and
all types of crazy stuff.
When it first came out,
you couldn't really do much with it.
Like you couldn't make
calls to the internet and
some of these functions couldn't do a lot
of things like the limit was like the code
limit was less than a megabyte,
it was ridiculous.
But now, it's pretty good.
It's not the same limits
as regular Lambdas, but
it's still really good on
what you can do with it.
So I highly recommend
checking this stuff out.
This is the next generation of something
you would have done with VCO on fastly or
something like that,
if you've ever used a CDN and
had to use VCO language to do some kind
of like a computation on a node there.
This is the equivalent of
that by the next generation.
Speaking of the Edge,
Cloudflare workers just got announced and
they're currently in beta and
these are basically Cloudflare's
version of Edge functions.
Cloudflare is one of the best
CDN in the world and
I kinda like their approach better
than what Lambda Edge is doing.
It's way simpler in my opinion and
it doesn't take 30 minutes to deploy.
So I would recommend
checking this stuff out.
They're doing some pretty interesting
things and the team is like so active.
It's like you could just email them and
tell them what you want,
and they'll book a meeting with
you like what do you want?
And they'll try to make it.
They're really cool like that.
So again,
this allows you to do computation on
the Edge which is very like powerful.
Super amazing,
you can do all types of crazy shit
there on the Edge like it's amazing.